very troubling signs have emerged in the
economy and I need to show you what they
are right here today you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
it's not all about just recognizing
what's going on but of course we have to
understand what can be done about it on
an individual level and then if they
ever decide to do anything beneficial
for us maybe on the government level as
well I want to note a few things the
very first is that the US economy takes
a step backward in April and we can see
that of course demand is weakening but
why is that the case I mean are people
suddenly just like you know practicing
minimalism uh they're becoming monks all
over the place uh no okay what's
happening here is that stuff is too
expensive and people have to pull back
where they don't need to of course some
things they just can't get rid of and
some things they won't get rid of until
they absolutely must and so you are
seeing the spend being concentrated into
different places this is us we see other
measures in Canada for instance Canada's
output per capita a measure of standard
of living plummets plummets the decline
amounts to roughly $4,200 per person so
this is a significant sum because you
can see what people are dealing with on
a per capita basis people are pulling
back that spending they can't spend in
some places and you know you do go
around and you see things uh but I'll
show you why I'll show you what's
happening on a different level where is
the spend going how is it being
accumulated well we have a problem and
it's a four-letter word yes uh not um
you probably think of a lot of
four-letter words I'm talking about one
that starts with d uh there's a
four-letter word that starts with d I'm
talk I'm talking about debt debt is a
four-letter word a dirty four-letter
word that we need to be careful about
now debt can be used as a tool a tool of
Leverage but it could be very painful
particularly when we're talking about
the so-called bad debt when it's credit
card debt and so on and we're going to
look at that today total debt in Canada
consumer corporate and government debt
combined has reached $10.2 trillion
while our GDP is less than a third of
that at 2.86 trillion that is a debt to
GDP ratio of 350
7% so you know you got a problem and you
compare that to other countries and it
starts to look a little bit um you know
terrible to say the least let let me
show
you this is the debt burden of countries
prior to a debt crisis and you'll look
at that Canada 2024 number three on the
list number three you have Iceland in
200 7 you have the UK of 2007 these
imagine like dealing with significant
debt crises and Canada right now today
is right there is right there us of 2007
is just behind it so you can see how bad
it is today when we compare to these
times in which debt got out of control
it unraveled you know you know what
happened obviously financial crisis and
that's where we are
um so clearly there's an issue yes
Canada is one but I show you this
because oh it's you know sort of washed
over that no don't worry about it's all
good it's all good no you're going to
see what happens when you try and sweep
something under the rug you you get the
rot you get the stench you canot cover
it up okay no matter how much fais
you apply to the Roth it's it's going to
stink all right um looking at this it it
it shows us what's happening
certainly the credit card usage This Is
Us credit card usage has been off the
charts off the charts and then you look
at the personal savings as a percentage
of disposable personal income and that
has been declining overall you know
people don't save money and they're
spending more on credit cards they're
spending more on the buy now pay laters
they do this and they get one credit
card to pay off the other one and they
do a balance transfer oh I'll get
another 12 months out of that I mean you
know these type of things are extremely
extremely dangerous and that's what's
happening right now maximum debt no
savings the country as a whole the
corporations Deb that that you just add
it up add it up add it up but what
happens if you remember when you you
were a kid you had those big big gums
the Hubba Bubba bubbalicious and you
would blow that bubble and that bubble
if you blew a small bubble everything
was all good but if you tried to blow
the biggest bubble you can what happens
the bubble gets thinner as it grows
bigger and that's of course like an
analogy of this financial system the way
that things are working our our
countries the bigger this grow
the weaker it is and the more damage
eventually the more mess that you will
make and it is very true today more now
than ever before now I'm going to show
you a couple charts this is showing us
the in the US the pce the personal
consumption expenditure just think of
that like the fed's oh so fantastic way
of measuring inflation okay it's not a
real rate of inflation but we still need
to look at it cuz that's that's what the
FED looks at and you could see that
Services make up all the gains basically
that we've been seeing Services continue
to rise considerably both year over year
and month over month the same with the
so-called core
pce Services overwhelmingly that's the
lighter blue section okay services and
that is I mean you're feeling it I know
I I hear from you all the time I look at
your comments if you understand what I'm
saying please let me know uh Services
have been the one I mean not not that
Goods haven't been increasing but
services are just out of
control this is showing us the um
personal consumption expenditure just
looking at it um broadly from 2018 up
until now and there has been an uptick
but I'm just want to show you this how
it looks like in context okay and then
we have this one here as well just
showing us that okay when we compare
this
the you know looking at this I think a
lot of people would be genuinely
surprised that the US is not only not
declining on the world stage it's
currently gaining in global economic
share the GDP increased $1.4 trillion
last year equivalent to adding the
entire country of
Spain so this is the world share but
there's something going on here because
the United States
has its strength in that the US dollar
is there um not to mention the economy
itself and so
on but remember we're comparing one
country to another a lot of these
countries are so poorly positioned that
the US looks almost good I guess like
that's the way it is like a
reluctant invest it's like okay what are
we going to do we're going to put it in
Europe where the you know they have so
many the the list of problems in Europe
is just goes on
forever you've got you know parts of
Asia okay they're growing but they've
got their own issues you look at Latin
America there's growth there certainly
but they have other issues too H and you
start on the Canada lost cause you start
to look at it and say well us it's it's
pretty here I mean I I know what to
expect okay let's just put our money
there and that's what happens now one
thing like when we see the US dollar
will decline in value against Real Goods
that's a fact but so will the Canadian
dollar and so will the Australian dollar
and every other currency they're all
going to devalue against Real Goods
because they printed a lot of money uh
but at the same time the way I look at
it is is just trying to remember that
this is in relation to each other and
you know if they're looking better in
relation to all these other countries
well then they're going to do better
than the others so it's like from
jumping from one one sinking ship to
another that's what we're seeing here
okay I need to make that clear the debt
is actually constricting just looking at
the household thatb as one example as a
percentage of annual disposable income
Canada's very I mean just off the charts
and that you know household debt I
mean you know that is I guess manageable
they love that word
manageable when interest rates are at
zero but they're not today they're
they're far from that and of course you
could see that with Canada here yes that
says
185 who's at the top of the list Denmark
remember Denmark was giv out mortgages
with negative interest rate Yes you
heard me correctly negative interest
rate it was very brief and it was only
because of the variable and it would
like slightly dip below but anyway the
point is it was basically free money
right Norway Switzerland Netherlands
Australia and so on all the way down and
then U the US is a little bit further
down the list
so that is a problem when you accumulate
all this debt and you have no way to
resolve it how how do you ever pay that
back well of course the system is
designed for it not to be paid back but
we get into a debt crisis and a debt
crisis you find that somebody loses big
time somebody's gonna lose big time okay
will it be particular corporations will
it be the people will it be the
government itself and the debt default
somebody's going to lose and we're going
to see how it all
unravels right now the people are losing
there's no question wallet bursting
housing costs have some torontonians
ditching the city for cheaper pastures
just showing a few examples of where
places that people have gone uh you know
we used to live here it's too expensive
we moved over there everything's much
cheaper much more affordable and so on
that's okay for some people but you got
to understand that this isn't a
resolution for others you like where
where do you move to where do you move
to everything has become like if you're
moving to that place chances are those
people that live there before you are
pretty you know what upset
because their costs are going to be
driven up as well
so that's the issue that we're seeing
today um I I think it's important for
individuals to do what they can pillars
of prosperity two things if you can you
need to become more self-sufficient
self-sufficiency will lower the ultimate
burden that is being applied to you by
inflation you have to do what you can to
increase your income as well these are
the things that I talk about uh
particularly the making more money is on
the Sunday business live if you have
gone to that site Link in the
description and you're like ah you know
what too much money and all this stuff
that's fine what you can do is go to my
playlists how to end Solutions that's
one I've got the other play um there's
several playlists in there but there's
uh other things about how to fix the
economy I have an entire playlist how to
fix the economy it's all there I've have
got things of how to make money all in
there playlists check them out and of
course I would love to see you on the
live sessions as well but at least at
the very least check out the playlists
that I have here on my channel if you
appreciate this information hit the
thumbs up button and I'll see you
tomorrow take care